in Canada it was your bill nerve who
made the headlines the Canadian was loud
as successor at Ferrari where they
intended to line up their three drivers
for the second-to-last Grand Prix of the
season well things were different then
and the supplementary test session was
even organized for the Wednesday before
the race for Ferrari and Renault who
still had a lot to learn while certain
of the title Lauda was torn between two
courses honoring is contracted down to
the last letter or deciding not to run
for the Ferrari team in which he'd been
unhappy for some time how convinced that
this good error would be unable to
prepare three cars properly Lauda
decided on the Friday morning not to
compete in the last two races of the
season morning the Renault team didn't
qualify they immediately decided to
withdraw from Japan in order to prepare
better for their 1978 season once again
the track was wet for the start which
didn't stop Mario Andretti from bounding
forward at the green light to keep the
advantage of his pole there were 80 laps
on the program and up until about the
60th Hunt kept up the pressure on the
Lotus driver
sadly for hunt in his McLaren he managed
to collide with his teammate York and
mass Jody Scheckter took his place
behind Andretti
gee we'll nerve spun and came 12th four
laps behind the winner a few laps later
and another classic played itself out
Andretti was let down by his engine just
three laps from the finish maddening for
the American who could have taken his
fifth victory but the scene was set for
the 1978 season and the Lotus team
before Peterson once again in their
midst promising to be formidable
Schecter claimed victory and officially
became louder second in the championship
not bad in the team's debut year well
the season ended in Japan and Mount Fuji
as was the case in 1976 James Hunt was
in good form and three Japanese drivers
took part in the race Takahashi veteran
hoshino and Takahama for the Kojima team
which wasn't without his problems
and leisure plavix had a teammate to
support him for the first time
jean-pierre jarier Andretti took Pole
but right from the start nothing went
right for the American who was overtaken
by almost everyone
worse was to come for Andretti on the
third lap to abandon after a violent
collision with Lafitte
we managed nonetheless to continue
on the eighth lap there was an ambulance
on the track and for good reason
veal nerve and Peterson had collided the
Ferrari finished up on the other sides
of the safety rail where it knocked down
about ten spectators an official and a
spectator were killed instantly another
difficult moment in the season but of
more than its fair share of problems
here we see Tam Bay's car on the
sidelines the Frenchmen had made a
blistering start in Formula One I was to
go on to drive for McLaren the following
season
clay regazzoni dropped out during the
45th lap with an oil flow problem in the
front though James Hunt's had no
difficulty and went on to his third
victory of the season the Englishman won
in front of roiderman and to pee who
finished the year on a high
Jones Lafitte and portrays he completed
the list of drivers in the points the
feats was the lucky driver after the
race he had to give up during the last
lap when he ran out of fuel just as he
was coming back fast on hunt he finished
fifth nonetheless
in the end louder finished the season on
72 points in front of Schachter with 55
the Austrian statistics are impressive
because he only competed in 14 out of
the 17 Grand Prix's run that year but in
those 14 races he made it onto the
podium on 10 occasions which obviously
made the difference
behind Scheckter there were three
drivers grouped within seven points
Andretti
Reuter Minh and hunt novice school all a
feat saying I'm not too disappointed
because I enjoyed myself a slight
problem with Andretti at the beginning
well he says a bit of a problem in fact
someone hit me and I went round on the
next lap I saw him on his side and guess
that it had been him you shouldn't be
going too fast Buick anyway and the
season finishing with rather a weird
podium since both hunt and Reuter Minh
had already left to catch their planes
it certainly had been a fantastic very
eventful season
you